VSOP87VB - By Jay_Tanner@Bigfoot.com

These Visual BASIC program modules form a nucleus around which to build a 
sophisticated planetary ephemeris program.


They compose the essential subroutines to compute the heliocentric, ecliptical 
coordinates, L, B and R according to the full VSOP87 theory.

They were tested on a few experimental dates and were consistent with the test 
values.   There may still be a few minor bugs somewhere, but the modules do the
bulk of the difficult computational tasks.

Variations of these functions are given in books like "Astronomical Algorithms" 
by Jean Meeus, except that the terms listed in the books are very truncated 
because it would take far too long to manually enter all the terms into a 
computer program and would be extremely subject to typographical errors.
 
The VB code is commented to help explain what the programs are doing internally, 
but the programmer is expected to already understand what the astronomical 
VSOP87 theory is about in general and be familiar with Visual BASIC programming 
- and of course, astronomical mathematics.  Fortunately, I designed the modules 
so that most of the heavy-duty math is performed by the LBR modules.

Along with the VB files are the full series of raw coefficient term tables, some 
containing nearly 3000 terms.  Since the tables are in ASCII text format, they 
can be easily read and applied by a creative, astronomy programer without nearly 
as much effort.  The VB tables were derived by dissecting a FORTRAN program 
designed to accomplish a similar task of computing the LBR values.  If you wish
to obtain the original FORTRAN files I used to create this VB implementation of
the VSOP87 theory, they may currently (as of 1 Dec 1999) be found in Russia at
the URL:   http://www.kiarchive.ru/pub/unix/astronomy/

The main shortcoming is that, I still haven't located the data I need to compute
the corrections for nutation.  If I can find that data in a form similar to the
FORTRAN code I made these modules from, then I'll design similar modules to handle
those computations also.

If you wish to reach me for any reason regarding these files, my e-mail address
is:    Jay_Tanner@Bigfoot.com

